---
title: Elipse E-Bay Redesign
layout: post
---

# Elipse E-Bay Redesign

Since my [ARTS2](http://www.ozarkaerospace.com/) got destroyed in a lawn-dart
accident in May, I purchased a
[Raven2](http://www.featherweightaltimeters.com/The_Raven.php) from
[Featherweight Aerospace](http://www.featherweightaltimeters.com/). No two
altimeters have the same mounting points, so I've been modifying the sled to
accept the new altimeter. In the process, I'm re-wiring the bay for quicker
setup and altimeter swapping. I got several 2-pin Molex connectors from Radio
Shack / Fry's and have been soldering together a wiring harness.

The Raven altimeter has a minimum of connectors, so instead of providing
paired connections for apogee and main, it provides a single connection for
each and expects the user's wiring to provide the power connection for each
channel. This is a little obnoxious without some form of wiring harness, but
simple with connectors.

My current dilemma is an on-off switch. Ideally, I'll use the [Featherweight
Magnetic
Switch](http://shop.featherweightaltimeters.com/product.sc?productId=33&categoryId=2).
They're supposed to be extremely handy - just wave a magnet by the rocket on
the rail and it's ready to go. However, I've run into both budget and
technical constraints. $25 per switch isn't bad, unless I need one of these
for *every single rocket*. That adds up too quickly. Making it part of the
wiring harness might work, but it adds another piece that must be mounted for
safety. My current harness design is relatively modular - perhaps I'll keep it
attached as part of the battery module.

I'm also not sure yet how to connect the harness and a battery. I'd like to
switch to small LiPo cells instead of single-use 9V batteries for both cost
and size considerations. However, most batteries I've found use some sort of
miniature connector. I don't want to remove that - it's useful for charging.
I'll need to find the mate to that connector, preferably in a solderable size.